Spring boot -  framework to bootstrap (fast) to setup Spring application.
Production ready

What is spring boot ?
spring + boot
Spring - it is spring framework
boot- bootstrap

offical definition- easy to create stand-alone , production grade ,spring based application that you can just run.!

what is spring ?
	dependency injection - 2006
	but changed a lott..!!!
	now it is application framework.- enterprise java application
	most of the application have some common things such as transaction (DB), etc. Spring provide template for the same.

	Programming and configuration model(
	Infraturtue support -  oralce, mysl, mongo db.

Pblm with Spring

	Huge framework
	Mutiple setup steps -  have more capability leads to need more configuration.
	Mutiple configuration steps
	Mutiple build and deploy steps - lot of capability and flexibility 

can we absstract these steps ?
 80 % configuration are common for each application  , so absstract these ---> spring boot.


what spring boot give us ?
	Optionated - Already configuration and provide a starting point.
	convention over configuration -   80 % alreayd there, so no need to do much configuration.
	Standalone -  normally, spring output is war, then need to deploy in tomcat like serverlet., but spring boot already contains tomcat , so can run as standalone.
	Production Ready- 


Start / Create Spring boot Application
1. Using Spring  STS - Spring Tool Suite
2. Use Maven ( build and dependency management tool)
3. Spring intializer


1. Using Maven

	spring come with lot of starter...!!!
	
	In pom.xml, we have a parent  - spring-boot-starter-parent ,
	this contains that 80 % percentage configuration of spring boot.
	this parent provide the Optionated concept of Spring .!
	
	dependency in pom 
		if we need to create a web application, we need to add a lot of jars need to add to build a web Application.
		But spring boot come with a dependency ,a single dependency will include all the required dependencies.
		example,
			spring-boot-starter-web  -dependency
			
			
			
Create a project

 create a main program
 
 @SpringBootApplication
 
  main(String args[])
   SpringApplication(MainApplication.class,args);
	
		static method run 
		
			*set up default configuration
			*start spring application context ( spring is a container for the application / services)
			*perfroms  class path scan -  go through all the classes in the src folder,  we have different classes in the src folder, each clases we are specify 
			a special meaning by addding some annotation such RestController ,Services etc. So spring do  a class path scan.
			*Starts Tomcat server.


Controller

	A java class
	marked with Annotation - RestController
	
	Has contains
		URL access and assoicate method.
		


	
 


